This python liobrary is basically used to convert the data into the visual form.

Data Visualization:
Representing the data into the visual form for the better understanding of the Data.
Turning boring data (tables etc) into the meaningful form of data.
"Pictures speak louder then the words."

These are the data visualization libraries used particularly:
Matplotlib                  Seaborn                 Plotly              Pandas(Plot)                Bookeh
Basic & Powerful            Statistical Plots       Interactive         Quick Plots                 Interactive and
                            on Matplotlib           Web based                                       easy one

Advantages of the data visualization:
-Saves time                          -Easy Communication                  -Spot trends and patterns
-Better decision making              -Handles big data aswell

Important Points:
1. Human brain processes the images 60000 times faster then the other form of data like text or tables etc 
2. Visualization can make lies. Charts or tables can also present the lies.
3. 90% big data projects fail because the early data visualization is not easy.
4. Human brain can hold 7 Pcs data at once.

Matplotlib further expalination:
                            Mat       Plot      Lib
                           Matlab   Plotting   Library

Chart types:
1. Line graph                       4. Bar chart 
2. Pie Chart                        5. Histogram
3. Scatter Plot                     6. Custom Graphics


Matplotlib.pyplot :
pyplot is the package inside the library pyplot to manage and handle different types of functionalities.

Key terms of the Matplotlib Library:
1. Datapoint:
datapoints are the main points of the data through which the whole data is represented in the form of x-axis or y-axis.
2. Figure:
A complete canvas where the visualization is being carries out.
3. Axes:
Graph box, An area on the canvas/figure where only the graph will be plotted.
4. Plot:
Line,bar,point which we draw in the graph.
5. Marker:
It is the symbol or dot for the visibility of the data.
6. Line:
It is the continuous connection between the data.
7. LineStyle:
It explains how this connection will be built.
8. Color:
It explains that what will be the color of the line,marker
9. Legend:
A small box that tells what are the different colors are representing.
10. Label:
It represents/explains what the x-axis or y-axis are representing.
11. Title:
It represents the title of the graph.
12. Grid:
These are the lines background of the graph (line graph, scatter graph)
13. Function:
Block of the code to carry out the certain functionality.
14. Method:
Functions which are used in the advance programming like in OOP.
15. Parameters:
Parameters is the information given to the function for the controlling.
16. keywords Arguments:
Kewords or the arguments are the values which are being given to the parameters for the better control over the function.
17. Object Oriented API:
Advance method for the graph plotting.
18. DPI (Dot per Inches):
It specifies the clarity or resolution of the graphs.It conrols the graph of graph.
19. Backend:
This backend represents the backends which are used to save the graphs.
TKAGG (by default)
QTAAG
WebAAG

