Artificial Intelligence:
"It is a branch of computer science that enables the computer to learn without the explicit programming
(instructions based programming telling the computer to carry out the certain tasks through the instructions)."

Machine Learning:
"Machine learning is the branch of artificial intelligence that makes the computer learn through examples and
experiences. Model gets trained over the new data and this process is kept repeating time to time."

Deep Learning:
"It is the branch of the machine learning that works on the specific functions that sre called neurons as the neurons
are being designed to carry out the specific functionality."

Note:
Every neuron is the function but every function is not the neuron.
Example: RELU Neuron is used to find the maximum number and SIGMOID function is used to convert into the binary from.

There are the two main roles as the 
    a. Encoders (Human centric to machine centric)
        "Human language into the vector embeddings or into the numerical form to make it understandable for the 
         computer."
    b. Decoders (Machine Centric to human centric)
        "Vector embeddings into the human understandable language so that the human can understand it.
This all process is being carried out by the Large Language Model(Text based model or the adversal neural network)."
Diffusion models if there is the dealing with the images
Stable Diffusion:
Role of encoders and the decoders for the image generation as the working is being carried out on the pixel and 
the image is being cleared using this process. Image can also go back to the its original position as this process 
is being used in the security purposes for the theif detection.

Encoders and decoders works collectively to make the Transformers.


Natural Language Processing:
    a. Stemming:
        Remving the last few unnecessary chracters like car from caring to make it a meaningful one.
    b. Lemmatization:
        It removes the last few chracters by understanding the context as well for instance caring to care 
        or eat from ate.
    c. Limmitization:
        It is the more intelligent form as it understands the 1st, 2nd and 3rd form of the verbs as well.


Types of Machine Learning:
----- 1. Supervised Learning    (Labelled Data)
    Types of Supervised Learning:
        a. Classification (Data with classes)
        b. Regression (Score based Answers/Feedbacks)
        Explaination
            a. Classification: 
                "Data is arranged into the classes for instance squares, triangles etc are already being classified
                 as the seperated form."
            b. Regression:
                "Score based answer for instance the output on the essay like asking the model what is your feedback
                 on the essay."


----- 2. Unsupervised Learning  (Unlabelled Data)
"A large record of data later arranged into a group or the cluster for the easy recognition and access.
It is used for the dimensionality reduction as the data with multiple inputs being given as the single output."

----- 3. Reinforcement Learning (Action Based Learning)
"Action based learning which is being carried out on the basis of the feedbacks as there are the three main
chracters in this type of learning which are agent, data , training. Agent is being trained by the use of the 
data through the process of training." For instance the child learns how to ride the bicycle like working as the 
agent in this scenario.
There are the two types of models
a. Training Mode (Model will be getting training)
b. Inference Mode/Prediction Mode  (Testing of the model)


Prompt Engineering:
Prompt engineering deals with the methodology of prompt giving to the computer as it covers various aspects which are
as follow:
-Persona
-Task
-Steps to complete the tasks
-Context
-Constraints
-Goal 
-Format Output

Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA):
It is the process of exploring the data and perfoming the analysis over it.
These are the steps involved into this process
1. Data Analysis
        Data Engineers (Classifies the data)
        Data Analysis  (Gives analysis that what kind of model will be made through the certain type of data)
        Data Scientists (Does everything related to the data)

2. Prprocess the data (Understands the data):
a. Data Cleaning:
       Removing the unnecessary stuff from the data
b. Removing the duplication:
       Removing the duplication from the data as ther will be more light weight data
c. Data Transformation:
       Transforming the data from one certain form to another certain form.

Follwinng are the steps involved into the EDA:
-Data Cleaning
-Descriptive Statistics (Summary Statistics)
            Mean
            Median
            Mode (Multi model)
            Inter Quartile Range (Q3-Q1)
            Standard deviation
            Dispersion
                Less dispersion means less training of the model so the less intelligent model will become and 
                greater dispersion means there will be the more training of the model and more intelligent will be 
                the model.
                Example
                                12         34       56        78        12      34        67         89         90       23 
                                sorting
                                12         12       23        34        34      56        67         78         89       90
                                min                                     34+56/2= 45                                      max
                                                                          Q2 = 45
                                           12+23/2=17.5                                               78+89/2=83.5
                                           Q1 = 18                                                    Q3 = 84

                                IQR = Q3 - Q1
                                    = 84 - 18
                                    = 66

-Data Visualization
            Data will be made visualizable
-Data Distribution
-Correlation Analysis
            Relationships of the features of the dataframe among each other and how they are depended on each other.
            It can be positive (strong) or it can be negative (weak) relationships as well.
-Outlier detection
            Outlier from the given range is detected and gets ignored as the outlier changes the direction in the 
            Average getting process.
-Data Transformation

A coloumn can have different names in the form of:

Feature  (ML)
Attribute  (Database)
Variable (Statistics)


Classification:
Classification is a machine learning tecnology used to predict the categorical data or discrete target variables.
Types of Classification:
1. Binary Classification
    There can only be two states at one time either it is yes(1) or it is no(0).Now here the values are numeric but 
    we know the numeric answer/output is possible only in the regression and here 0,1 are numeric although it is in
    classification. So these numeric numbers are just for the representation, numeric operations cannot be performed
    on them.
2. Multi-class Classification
    More than two classes at one time.
Target Variables:
It is the variable we want to predict.
It represents the outcome or label we are interested in.

Scikit-learn:
It is the popular python library used for the classification, regression and clustering aswell.

Data Splitting
Data is splitted into two different categories which are as:
Training Data
Testing Data












